TRACING-4621: add troubleshooting guide for Instrumentation (#82280)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/otel-troubleshooting-instrumentation-injection-into-your-workload.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/otel/otel-troubleshooting.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="otel-troubleshooting-instrumentation-injection-into-your-workload_{context}"]
= Troubleshooting instrumentation injection into your workload

Troubleshooting instrumentation injection into your workload involves checking whether the `Instrumentation` object was created, the init-container started, the resources were deployed in the correct order, looking for errors in the operator logs, and double-checking the pod annotations.

.Procedure

. Run the following command to verify that the `Instrumentation` object was successfully created:
+
[source,console]
----
oc get instrumentation -n <workload_project> # <1>
----

> <1> The namespace where the instrumentation is injected for workloads.

Reviewer: @iblancasa, looks like I didn't yet update this line in response to your suggestion below: 
```suggestion
<1> The namespace where the instrumentation was created.
```

. Run the following command to verify that the `opentelemetry-auto-instrumentation` init-container successfully started, which is a prerequisite for instrumentation injection into workloads:
+
[source,console]
----
oc get events -n <workload_project> # <1>
----

> <1> The namespace where the instrumentation is injected for workloads.

Reviewer: @iblancasa, looks like I didn't yet update this line in response to your suggestion below: 
```suggestion
<1> The namespace where the instrumentation was created.
```

Author: This one is correct.

----

. Troubleshoot pod annotations for the instrumentations for a specific programming language. See the required annotation fields and values in the section "Configuring the instrumentation".

.. Verify that the application pods that you are instrumenting are labeled with correct annotations and the appropriate auto-instrumentation settings have been applied.
+
For example: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-python="true"`.
+
.Example command to get pod annotations for an instrumented Python application
[source,console]
----
oc get pods -n <workload_project> -o jsonpath='{range .items[?(@.metadata.annotations["instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-python"]=="true")]}{.metadata.name}{"\n"}{end}'
----

.. Verify that the annotation applied to the instrumentation object is correct for the programming language that you are instrumenting.

.. If there are multiple instrumentations in the same namespace, specify the name of the `Instrumentation` object in their annotations.
+
For example: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-nodejs: "<instrumentation_object>"`.

.. If the `Instrumentation` object is in a different namespace, specify the namespace in the annotation.
+

> For example: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-nodejs: "<other_namespace>/<instrumentation_object>"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example input
----
`instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-nodejs: "<other_namespace>/<instrumentation_object>"`
----
```

> .. Verify that the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource contains the auto-instrumentation annotations under `spec.template.metadata.annotations` and not under `spec.metadata.annotations` where they have no effect. If you discover the auto-instrumentation annotations in `spec.metadata.annotations`, move them into `spec.template.metadata.annotations`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Verify that the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource contains the auto-instrumentation annotations under `spec.template.metadata.annotations`. If the auto-instrumentation annotations is in `spec.metadata.annotations`, move them into `spec.template.metadata.annotations`.
```

> / Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer 3: This is showing up verbatim in the build because it's just the one `/`, should be two for a comment:
```suggestion
// Module included in the following assemblies:
```

Reviewer: Oops, sorry about this.

//
// * observability/otel/otel-troubleshooting.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="otel-troubleshooting-instrumentation-injection-into-your-workload_{context}"]
= Troubleshooting instrumentation injection into your workload

To troubleshoot instrumentation injection, you can perform the following activities:

* Checking if the `Instrumentation` object was created
* Checking if the init-container started
* Checking if the resources were deployed in the correct order
* Searching for errors in the Operator logs
* Double-checking the pod annotations

.Procedure

. Run the following command to verify that the `Instrumentation` object was successfully created:
+

> [source,console]
> ----
> oc get instrumentation -n <workload_project> # <1>
> ----

Reviewer 3: I'll only leave the comment on this one here, but there are about 7 instances like this where `[source,console]` should be `[source,terminal]`, and the `oc` command is missing its `$` prompt:
```suggestion
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get instrumentation -n <workload_project> # <1>
----
```
Please apply to all 7 instances.

<1> The namespace where the instrumentation was created.

. Run the following command to verify that the `opentelemetry-auto-instrumentation` init-container successfully started, which is a prerequisite for instrumentation injection into workloads:
+
[source,console]
----
oc get events -n <workload_project> # <1>
----
<1> The namespace where the instrumentation is injected for workloads.
+
.Example output
[source,console]
----
... Created container opentelemetry-auto-instrumentation
... Started container opentelemetry-auto-instrumentation
----

> . Verify that the resources were deployed in the correct order for the auto-instrumentation to work correctly. The correct order is to deploy the `Instrumentation` custom resource (CR) before the application. For information about the `Instrumentation` CR, see the section "Configuring the instrumentation".

Reviewer 3: Drop "the section":
```suggestion
. Verify that the resources were deployed in the correct order for the auto-instrumentation to work correctly. The correct order is to deploy the `Instrumentation` custom resource (CR) before the application. For information about the `Instrumentation` CR, see "Configuring the instrumentation".
```
And see again Janelle's earlier comment via https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/82280/files#r1837152975 for more.
